zach this may sound kind of weird but
like
i'm kind of hearing that you're not
really afraid of
i know it sounds weird yeah yeah go on
you're not really afraid of death
i i think what what bothers you it
sounds to me is actually your inability
to deal with death
awesome okay yeah things have been uh
they've been a little bit up and down
but uh it's been i guess all right i
mean
the new games are getting released that
i'm excited to play so that's at least
one positive right
yeah what what are you looking forward
to playing uh burning crusade uh
unfortunately it's getting released a
bit earlier than i would have
hoped for and a few other games ashes of
creation
new world other mmos basically
yeah new world is um amazon games as mmo
yeah
yeah it is coming out
uh i actually don't know i think it's
august
okay is there like a beta or yeah there
was we played it for a while
and um the game was fun for like three
days and it sucked
and so i'm hoping that when the game
actually comes out it'll be fun for at
least five
pretty much yeah
it's it's gaming in 2021 what can i say
what is gaming in 2021 uh whenever they
try to milk you out of all the money
possible while simultaneously putting in
the littlest amount of effort possible
yeah i was pretty excited about magic
legends i don't know if you tried
i i didn't play it but i played match
with the gathering a lot whenever i was
younger so uh
i heard about it um what did you hear
uh i i just heard it was an arpg and i
didn't hear any good or bad things about
it i just heard
people said it came out and then i never
heard about it again so you can kind of
put two and two together there and uh
yeah yeah i thought it was super cool
like the the yeah the conceptual
design behind the game i was super
excited about like the idea is that
you've got like a deck right so it's
sort of like a deck builder
but it's like an arpg format so you can
have like four skills
at any given time but once you use a
card you like
lose the spell and it goes back into
your and then you have to like reshuffle
and stuff
so there's like a lot of deck building
seems like a super cool arpg um
i was uh i was always hoping that like i
mean i
paid a lot of attention to magic like
for many years whenever i played it i
was in like high school and in the
college
so like any time that something cool
like that happens i'll kind of be
interested in it but i just kind of
expected to hear more about it later and
i just never did
so you know that's usually the way it
goes yeah i heard
that um you know i think what may have
happened is
there was like a there's like there were
four classes and there's a fifth class
that you can unlock
um but the the class is only unlockable
through microtransactions
and then on top of that the micro
transactions are rng so the class is a
drop from a loot box
so people were people were spending like
and still like
not getting the class see that's
uh like i remember apex legend said
something like that
and it was just like you you got a
little dagger for
one of the characters but like this is a
whole class and it's 500
that's exactly the [ __ ] that i'm talking
about man like i i said that uh
i said a game should make you want to
waste your time and not just waste your
time
and i feel like all the games now they
don't just waste your time they waste
your time and your money
it's just it's sad yeah man
yeah i feel like the uh i don't know
like maybe maybe it's like i'm getting
older or something
but like the the allure to it and the
smoke and mirrors behind the ways that
they keep you playing the game
are pretty much just mirrors now you can
just see right it's just right there
yeah yeah
um so you said you're you're excited
about burning crusade
yeah yeah wow classic burn include
crusade right right
yeah yeah that's right and then you
you've been playing a lot of shadow
lands recently or
yeah yeah how do you feel about
shadowlands not good
uh i feel like uh you know i've played a
game for 15 years
and uh the people that are running the
game are ruining it
and i feel like i'm wasting my time
playing it for the first time
in like 15 years it's sad
how are they ruining it uh by just not
knowing
i i don't think they're doing what i
what i would do i think they're just not
really putting
in the effort that they need to i think
they're just trying to
kind of compel people to play the game
longer rather than enjoy the game
if that makes sense yeah i love your way
with language like
compel versus enjoy
yes yes and then you said also that
a game should make you want to waste
your time not yet
yeah it shouldn't just waste your yeah
yeah you want to spend all day playing
the game not you have to
yeah and that's the way it used to be
and like i always wonder right it's like
is this because i'm older
is it because the game is worse and it's
like you can never really dissect the
two
because you can't you know experience
them in like some sort of controlled
environment
but it does feel a lot different than it
does that it did
you can't experience them in a
controlled environment
can you say a little bit more about that
well yeah yeah so like for example
if i go and i i play a game
that i used to play whenever i was a kid
i i can't really go back and experience
that for the first time
it's like the you can never step in the
same river twice right and
it's kind of the same paradigm where if
i go back
and i play super mario world for the
800th time
it's not gonna be the same experience as
i had whenever i was five years old
playing it and getting upset and mad
because i couldn't beat the game
so it's like is it because is the
attachment to the games and the drive to
play them
diminishing because of the quality of
the games or is it diminishing because
of a different point in my life you see
what i mean
yeah i'm wondering if you're turning
into a boomer
me too right me too
yeah right back in the day
back in my day we didn't have any micro
transactions it was
just the good times you bought the game
from blockbuster and you took it home
and you played it for three days
that's that's how it was for me too let
me tell you what what happened is you'd
go to a game and you'd purchase it
imagine that the game was yours you
didn't need none internet
no to play it it was it was great
it really was yeah i didn't need to be
a single-player game didn't need to be
connected to their multiplayer server i
could just play it by myself
when my cow stepped on my ethernet cable
i could just keep playing what the
hell's a battle pass
i never heard of that yeah i know i know
all too damn well it's sad
i don't know where it's gonna go yeah
man but yeah
might be it might just be being a boomer
i i don't know i think that's a that's a
big part of it at least
yeah so i i i kind of feel that way too
like i wonder if it's the boomer within
me but i i do feel like um
what's happening kind of like what you i
think you captured it well that
a lot of game designers are trying to
make a game that's com like you know
that you're compelled to play as opposed
to enjoyable
um can i just share like a bizarre
experience i had like about a year ago
absolutely so i was at um
like uh so i i used to be in boston and
and sometimes i would go to like
business networking events
ooh and and so sometimes like at these
business networking events like
um you know you'd meet people who are
like you know in different industries
and so like i met like this mba
who was interested in the gaming
industry he was like yeah like i'm
you know i'm i'm like i i work in the
gaming industry and i was like awesome
what games do you like and he was like
oh i don't like games i don't play them
i was like what interests you and you
think he was like oh like you know i
think that the monetization
opportunities are like really fantastic
i was like no yeah yeah he works at
activision now i i
i know who that is yeah i was like i was
like this is they actually exist
like people are and you know what it
reminds me of actually is
is can i tell you another random story i
guess i'm the one telling stories today
so when i was uh training to become a
psychiatrist i i had this eye-opening
lecture from this
absolutely um brilliant guy
and his name is dr freuden reich and so
we were we were talking about you know
medicine and the practice of medicine
within like
medicine and healthcare so you know i'm
a doctor i practice medicine
but in my job it's like healthcare
there's like a hospital there's
insurance there's billing there's
administration
you know all this kind of stuff and he's
like you know if you don't like
your job and you don't like healthcare
the problem
is that you know 20 years ago a hospital
system had something called the forms
committee
can you imagine what the forms committee
does
uh they probably process forms
yes absolutely that's literally it yeah
so they
process forms and and the committee
actually makes the forms
so there's a group of people who decides
what are the forms that people need to
fill out
and when when the forms committee was
launched they asked doctors to be a part
of it
and can you imagine what the doctors
said no
please no absolutely we hate we hate
paperwork we hate it i don't want to i
didn't go to medical school
and train for seven years to become a
neurosurgeon
and devote over a decade of my life so i
could figure out
what forms need to be filled out i did
it to do neurosurgery on people with
brain cancer
and so there were no doctors on the
forms committee
and then then what happened is all these
people decided
which forms the neurosurgeon has to fill
out
and then we lost the battle and this is
what's happening in the gaming industry
now is that like you know we're
you know we've got people who aren't
gamers who are designing video games
that's just about right uh it's p
and and they just necessitate a need for
themselves because like
if they they'll always come out with new
forms or new things that you have to do
because they don't want to you know show
how useless they are
i think that happens a lot too it's like
they're kind of creating
is creating a problem and then
presenting themselves as a solution for
it and i think that happens with a lot
of games too
can you share a little bit more about
that how do you how do you know that
uh i mean like it's a lot of things i
think that
really like one example of this is like
in the game i play a lot
world of warcraft like they will release
like some sort of
you know like let's say it's a way to
get really good armor or to like make
your legendary weapons or something like
that
and you will have to repeat a process
over and over and over in a way that is
transparently
just a method of extending your play
time
rather than making you enjoy the content
so
you do this over and over and over and
then later on like maybe a year later
they will make it easier in the way that
people initially wanted it to be
one year ago and it's just
it's just crazy like it and and like it
it
as i said it kind of lifts the it it
pulls the curtain away and you can just
see all the machinery in the back
it's like that the wizard of oz right
you just see him in the in the little
room broadcasting
and it's no longer this like experience
that you have
the willing suspension of disbelief is
removed
and you're just stuck there like a rat
in a maze
it sucks it sounds terrifying
i mean you know i i feel like i gotta
share this i'm hopeful though
so i i think like at the end of the day
like did you play hades
i played it for maybe 20 minutes
i had fun for those 20 minutes though so
i i think hades is a great example like
i absolutely love the game and i think
it's like
an example what i'm terrified of is um
the aaa clones of hades oh
yeah because they're coming oh no doubt
i mean absolutely and like the game it's
not like i stopped playing it because i
didn't want to i just
stopped playing because i had to go back
to streaming and that that's why
and i haven't really had time to play it
but yeah it was a really fun game i
enjoyed it it was
it was very clean it was very well
designed and
there's some things that are just kind
of missing did you play valheim i kind
of got the same experience with that
i love valenheim yeah yeah and that's
something made by five people right and
yeah
it just feels like uh you know these big
game companies
i told people that they're uh instead of
too big to fail it's too big to
to succeed that's really the way i feel
it's like they're
it takes them forever to do anything
it's like over produced and they have
like this fixation
on you know the lighting on a
character's nose
rather than the gameplay that everybody
goes with
yeah i remember hearing about dragon age
origins
three yeah so i don't know if you played
the original dragon age but the
uh uh original dragon age oh
we just got a thousand dollar donation
holy [ __ ]
and it seems like um as someone who
struggles with mental health what you're
doing is invaluable thank you
i don't know so the funny thing now is
like i
i don't know if that person is talking
about what we're talking about now
yeah it's just like a general statement
yeah it so now i'm genuinely confused
whether
you know talking about how depressing
and predatory the video game landscape
now
is is is like with the public good that
we're doing or is it when we talk about
like
depression and anxiety and and learning
to love yourself
it's probably just it's like somebody is
saying it besides them
and it's like okay you know there's a
guy that graduated from harvard who
thinks the same damn thing that i did
i'm not crazy you know i think that's
really what it is i
i remember every time that i hear
somebody else saying what you're saying
it always is a little bit validating for
me too
yeah okay well thank you very much for
the support folks
um so you know just a couple other
things like i i think that like
you know i hear what you're saying in
terms of activision being predatory and
whatnot but like
part of the thing though uh asman is i i
still think that like these
these triple a game companies like
actually make really amazing games
like i loved warcraft 3 loved starcraft
sc2 was like okay
yeah and like you know wow was amazing i
think overwatch is like genuinely like a
very good game
um you know people may disagree but like
i think a lot of the you know the big
evil people actually do make really
amazing games
i i agree but i think that it's a very
sad state of affairs that most of the
examples that you gave were over 10
years ago
but we'll say that i'm sure we'll say
that about diablo immortal right
won't we add that to the list um
i i think that diablo yeah that's a
that's a tough one isn't it that's a
very tough one
and like that's one of the things i just
wish they made a a pc port for it i'd
play it if it was on the pc just see
what it's like but um
they don't even do that for some reason
i have no idea why
yeah yeah so are we just talking about
are we like
reminiscing well it's a metaphor right
because
the games are like it's what i spend my
time doing
and it's like i've played games all my
life
and i enjoy them and i don't really
enjoy them as much now and
it's like why is that is it because i'm
older is it because the games are worse
it's
and that's what i'm in it's like hard to
decide it's like kind of
like i'm 30 now and i i tell my i say
that all the time
because i still can't even come to terms
with it it's scary
and i'm i've done this for
like basically i've streamed and sat in
my room all day every day and played
video games for
pretty much my whole adult life and
i've loved it the whole time it's it's
been absolutely amazing
but it feels like it's coming to an end
it feels like it's
it's like ending in a way i don't know
how i can really describe it
it's sad
can i just sit with that for a second
you know when you say that what comes to
mind have you played dark souls
many times so you know like the story
behind dark souls which is that the
flame is going out
yeah that's sort of like the image that
i get
uh yeah i mean i hope i don't end up
like king gwen
but yeah i could see that uh absolutely
yeah it's uh and i think it's just also
like i've kind of
done and i look like quinn
look if i get a lot if my hair is
getting longer and i've gotten a few
gray hairs
yeah man it's getting there
yeah that's right i oh my god that's
scary to think
and i did actually choose that ending
too oh no
so yeah i mean it's it's definitely
scary because like i feel like i've done
pretty much everything that i
wanted to do and i've accomplished a lot
of things i've wanted to do
and it's like kind of i'm aimless in a
way because
i don't have the same motivation to
really do anything like i i do
you know i go through the same motions
and i do the same stuff but it's not
with the same level
of enthusiastic uh
deterministic it's like determinism that
i used to have
it's just kind of i'm doing it because
it's what i like doing
and it's what i do it's not even really
what i like doing it's what i do
and it's weird for me to think back
and think that it's been 10 years that
i've been doing this
and i don't i i don't ever
want it to end but it is
it's like i can't stop getting older i
can't stop
uh that this happening and i feel like
also
like i'm i'll be honest i'm sure you
probably have had the same feeling like
you ever play a game that you were
really good at whenever you were a kid
and now you suck at it
yes yeah so i've also done the opposite
where there were games that i used to
think were really hard and i go back and
play them now and i was like i don't
understand
how i ever you know
had difficulty with this game i i
understand that a lot yeah there's a
little bit of those too especially some
super nintendo games
yeah i was a dumb ass kid i had ny deal
and and uh yeah it's interesting i think
the game that comes to mind the most
is um dota so i've been playing dota for
over a decade
and like i was bad at dota and then for
a while i was like pretty good at dota
like i was probably like
you know somewhere in the top 10 or 20
of the player base
yeah and then you know like respectable
like nowhere near pro
but like respectable and now i'm in like
the bottom
50 percent and and that yeah
and i've been one of these guys that
like no matter what game like you know
how they're like some people are just
good at games right and like you can
play
you pick up any game and within you know
month of playing it you'll be like
in the top twenty percent of the player
base yeah
and yeah there were always the noobs
that you would prey on
the game after game after game
absolutely you play the player those
people for six months they're gonna just
they're never gonna get better yep and i
feel like
i'm transitioning into that noob stage
yeah that's that's what i see
it's happening yeah it's uh
yeah good no go go for it
um well that's kind of the way that i
feel right is that
it's like i feel like i'm losing that
thing that i was i was good at
and i'm not good at it really that much
anymore
and it's just kind of like for a lot of
people
it's not like it wouldn't really matter
you know what i mean because it's just
it's just a video game
but i think what really hits me hard
with it is like thinking that
it's like something as like a greater
thing like if i'm just not good at the
game anymore it's whatever
but if i'm not good at the game anymore
because i'm getting older that's scary
what's scary about that because whenever
you get older you die
is that what you feel like you're doing
well i mean everybody is you're doing it
all the time
i mean like of course to an extent yeah
it just feels like uh
uh it feels like i
like there aren't really as many good
things to look forward to anymore
if that makes sense how long have you
felt that way
i don't know maybe three years two years
and so it sounds to me like you're kind
of living your life on autopilot
i mean in a way yeah or it's like kind
of
you're waiting for the next thing to go
wrong
that's
that caught me off guard that's not what
i was expecting you to say
what do you mean you're waiting has a
lot gone wrong
yeah i mean well it's not it's not
something that just happens overnight
uh it's just something that kind of it's
either like a slow deterioration
or it could be something that just kind
of happens right of course
and it's one of those things where it's
kind of hard to pinpoint when it happens
but if you go back and you look two
years like before
like in in the past you'd see that
things are clearly better
and there was no real day where things
changed but
it was just like a slow decay
yeah that sounds bleak how are things
for you
how how were things for you three years
ago
uh probably uh a little bit better
right i mean i had a classic wild look
forward to uh that was cool
and um then uh i mean
it's like a lot of little things right
because back then i was like really
excited about
uh doing my stream and and being very
successful with my stream and i still
care about that a lot but like
at that time i didn't i never had the
success that i have now
so it wasn't like i still had that to
work towards
if that makes sense mm-hmm so yeah
you had a goal yeah i had to go i have
no goals
um like i have like i guess i mean to an
extent i do
but the goals that i used to always have
like this might sound insane okay
but i used to honestly wake up in the
morning and feel
completely like fulfilled and satisfied
with the idea that i'm going to play
world of warcraft today
and i'm going to farm for some item that
i want and i'm going to feel great about
it and i'm going to go to bed that night
and i'm going to feel like a winner
and i used to really feel that way it
was great and
now it's just not the same
how do you feel now like i wasted my
damn time
like that's that's the way i feel it's
always my i feel like i don't know what
to what to do
i i don't know if i like what what it is
and i've tried to find like other things
i made an org
company with people friends of mine and
that's going really well it's gone
actually
surprisingly well and uh that's been
great
but there needs to be something for me
personally
that i have to work towards can you tell
me about the org
yeah uh basically i i made an
organization called uh
otk one true king with uh myself uh s
fan you know s fend ms kiff
uh tips out and my other friend wrench
we brought on nick pollam
nmp as well and uh we have people that
we obviously hire
and we put on different events and we
just kind of make content together
oh interesting it stands for one tree
king one
king yeah i just i thought it was one
turn kill
um so we actually uh the funny thing
about that
is uh we actually found out it also
stands for over the knee which is a
sexual fetish
we didn't know that until after we
announced the org okay
little fun uh fun little what is it rule
i think anything can be 32 32 anything
can be a sexual fetish right
um yeah we actually thought about as a
joke selling paddles
[Laughter]
so we'll see but yeah it's uh i i think
that was like that's kind of like a next
step thing for me too right is to kind
of have that thing that you can kind of
work on
beyond just playing video games and
beyond that something that's kind of
bigger than yourself and
uh that that has been it's been very
stressful for me to have to do that
and um especially as somebody who is uh
pretty much a hermit i like being alone
all the time and now i have to
talk to people all the time for those
different things and it's it's good but
it's also exhausting for a person who
likes to be alone
you want me to call you asman gold asman
or or what
we just do zach it's fine okay zach can
i have a second to think
yeah sure
um do you mind if i ask you us i'm just
debating this because there's something
that my mind is curious about um
but i'm wondering if maybe like asking
this question is embarrassing uh i was
debating maybe asking it to you
in private but it's something that you
had publicly spoken about
on stream before and i find myself kind
of wondering
yeah did you ever go see that dentist
and get your teeth taken care of
yeah uh i did i still need to get more
of them taken care of absolutely uh it
takes me uh
like my teeth are [ __ ] up right and so
there's a lot of work that i need to
have done
and uh with covet and everything i have
been a little bit slower on doing it but
yes i've had a number of my teeth uh
fixed and taken care of
now i have to do i think probably two or
three more visits
i don't like you about that uh well
there's a funny thing about that
so whenever i was younger i used to
always eat my food really fast and then
it would make me
sick to my stomach because i ate my food
so fast and then all my teeth fell out
and i couldn't do it anymore and i
stopped getting sick after eating my
food
and now that i got my teeth back i'm
eating my food again and i'm getting
sick again
so uh yeah that's basically where we're
at
and uh i i there's i don't know there i
don't know if there's really
a moral to that story or anything like
that but it's basically uh
it's basically what it is and it's not
like i it's not like an eating disorder
i just eat food very fast right i just
want to eat the food like
eating food is like a it's like a daily
quest in a video game where like i just
want to get it out of the way as fast as
i can so i can move on to
actually playing daily quests in video
games
that's basically yeah yeah get my get my
rl daily quests out of the way so that
you can do my virtual dailies
yeah a min max and uh you know sometimes
it
it doesn't turn out very well but yeah i
mean i uh
i i do i i do i'm glad that i've
i've gotten them fixed more and uh it's
kind of
it was really bad like there were a few
times where i stopped streaming because
one of my teeth
broke or fell out or something like that
uh and
you could tell whenever i was streaming
and it just kind of
there are a lot of things that i have no
problem with people
looking at me and seeing but that was
one of them that was just a little bit
too much
okay so i'm gonna just kind of think out
loud for a second because i'm noticing
you know potentially a direction of this
conversation that's a little bit
aligned with what we usually do so i
know we started talking about about like
you know gaming and
and being you know boomers and back in
the day like
you know you had back in the day like
you didn't have a server that gave you
matchmaking you had to go out and find
your match yourself
but you had to make it you had to make
friends yeah and it was great
it was you had to create a custom lobby
and you never knew
who would show up and whether they would
be a hacker and there was no
there's no reporting system for hackers
xbox live didn't give a [ __ ] yeah yeah
i remember all too well so we kind of
started out there and i'm noticing that
you're someone who's quite
driven and that you used to look forward
to the day
like you'd wake up and you'd play wow
and you'd really enjoy it and it was
like it was an exciting and fulfilling
life
you were also somewhat you know skilled
or lucky and became like
you know successful through that um yeah
and and then like and then just like in
in the world of dark souls like you know
there's only a limited amount of fuel
yeah
and the flame starts to dim and then
like now what i'm kind of hearing from
you is like
you don't have goals like you don't have
that zest that used to drive you
well there's yeah i was gonna say
there's nothing really to look forward
to
in the same way that they used to be so
um great point i'll i'll kind of
get to that in a second um so so
and then like you even tried stuff right
like you've heard from the others
that oh if you're like tired of getting
gaming like make an
org like do something else like set like
come up with a new goal for yourself
and you're like cool let's do this and
then the interesting thing is that
what i'm hearing you say is that it
actually checked a lot of the boxes
yeah it gave you something to work
towards working towards success it
sounds like it's actually fun
but there's still something like missing
it's sort of like
you know it's it's kind of like a puff
pastry that's kind of good but like
empty on the inside
yeah it's like it's like an eclair and
there's no cream in the middle
yeah right and and so and so this is
where i
think like maybe what we need to uh oh
we're getting donations sorry
um i think what we want to talk about
today is like
goals and the nature of fulfillment yeah
and
and i'm also curious are you afraid of
dying
yes yes very much so
very very much so it's uh it's the same
as like the uh
the the gray hairs or you know i go get
gray hairs it's like the memento mori of
it and it
i i have to i pull them out of my beard
i cut them out of my beard because it
just freaks me out
it totally freaks me out and like i i'm
so scared of it
okay absolutely so i i think we can
we can this is something i can work with
yeah uh so zack i'm i'm
i'm actually like i feel pretty good
that that this is something that
you can overcome like
i know i know the best way that i've
i've
been able to overcome it is by reminding
myself
that i'm just a very intelligent monkey
and i have no idea how the world
and the [ __ ] the inner workings of
the universe really exist
right like i have no idea what i'm
talking about just sit back
shut up and enjoy the ride like that's
been the best way
that i've learned to cope with it
yeah so what that sounds like a good
coping mechanism
but it sounds like a coping mechanism
not a fix
okay so there's a part of me that says
like
why not just learn how the universe
works
because you i i don't think you can
pierce the veil i don't i don't think
people can
i i don't think it's possible it's the
same as like i don't think a uh
you know how like an ant couldn't learn
physics i don't think people can do it
and i think that's a completely
reasonable
experience i mean a completely
reasonable view
and i think that you know you're not
going to understand
that people can pierce the veil until
you pierce the veil
yeah um i mean i guess that's a good way
to say it i mean people didn't know
there was fire until they made fire they
didn't know there was electricity until
that happened
yeah and so this is where i i think the
interesting thing is historically so i
think the problem is that where you are
yeah many people have been historically
and this is where my confidence comes
from is because i think that like
you know you have a lot of the features
that i'm gonna out
outline in a second that i think are you
know
you're really falling into a pattern
here can i just keep talking
yes so the first is that a lot of times
excitement and motivation come from
goals
especially for young people right like
so i i
like i i set a goal for myself i want to
be something i want to accomplish
something
and so you climb to the top of the
mountain and it's it's the
image of the view at the top of the
mountain
which motivates you to climb yeah
and so this is the most natural form of
like motivation and like goal setting
and excitement like you were building
something you were growing
you were playing games you were loving
it yeah and then you reached to the
the top of the mountain and even then
the view at the top of the mountain is
glorious
but now what right
and so this is where yeah it's like
you're slowly sliding down the side of
the mountain
and every once in a while you stop
sliding
and you sh you you trick yourself and
tell yourself that it's a win
but the fact is is that you're just
losing slower
yeah man so like i don't know how to say
this to you but as long as
that image and that experience is there
i think it's going to be very hard to
find excitement
yeah i i would say so right so here's
what i'm hearing
i think sliding down the mountain is a
good you seem like you wanted to say
something go for it
well i i think that it's more that it's
not just a metaphor for gaming it's like
i think whenever you're younger right
you look forward to
um you look forward to maybe getting
your first girlfriend
uh you know getting a car learning how
to drive
going to college you know like moving
out or
you know a bunch of these different
firsts and i feel like all the fun
firsts that i've
that i have are pretty much over with
and
i'm just kind of uh i i'm i'm waiting
for the bad first to happen
and it's like i really only have bad
things to look forward to for the rest
of my life in a way
i it sounds really bleak but that's
really how i feel yeah
i'm glad you're sharing that because i
think it's bleak and also it's
reasonable
and here's the reason it's reasonable
because
so far fulfillment from you has come
from cresting the mountain
right and so like here's what i'm
hearing is like there's an
uphill part and once we get to the top
it doesn't matter whether you're facing
north south east or west
there's only one way to go it sure is
yeah right and and so what i'm hearing
from you is this sort of like the fire
is going out
a fear of of mortality if you actually
study like psychoanalysis what you'll
find is that
dreams around dental problems are
associated with the fear of death
i don't blame them i don't blame them at
all
i think it's more about like it's not
about it's how to transcend the mountain
entirely
because like i don't yeah you can't the
thing is i know that you can't live your
life
it's like you have to you can't be uh i
guess like goal
like outcome uh driven right you have to
just be able to do something because you
enjoy doing it
yeah that's all yeah so so that's where
when you say transcend them out the
reason that i'm actually optimistic is i
think there are a couple of different
things going on one is that
i see this a lot because i work with
some very successful people
and success drives them to the top but
then they shrug their
they're like now what right and what
they usually end up doing is much like
yourself
they're like oh it's climbing to the top
of a mountain which
gives me a sense of fulfillment so let
me go find another mountain and then
they climb that one and they get like a
diminishing return from it
it checks some of the boxes and they're
like oh i've accomplished stuff
i can i feel pride but i still feel
unfulfilled
it's not the same and so they'll find
mountain after mountain after mountain
and they'll feel
unfulfilled despite being successful
successful successful
yep and so the reason that i'm
optimistic though is because like the
best known case
of someone solving this problem is
buddha
so okay yeah
like if you and i talked about them no
no i i know
a bit but not can you share with us what
you know about buddha
uh basically i think that he was some
sort
of a like some sort of workman and then
he kind of just sat
under a tree and pretty much all of the
a lot of the revelation that he had i
i believe was just kind of internal
and i think that the i remember there
was i think some sort of a
a phrase where the true enlightenment
is not you know understanding the
complexities of the universe it's
understanding the nothingness of the
universe or something like that i think
it's like a one of the
things about that now i could be getting
this completely wrong and this is like
10 years ago or 15 years ago but it's
that's what i remember
yeah that's actually it you hit all the
important parts but a couple of details
i think we're gonna have to reshift
so like i think uh the key thing is that
what buddha did was
as you put it pierce the veil yeah okay
so
right so like i think that's what his
discovery was is that like you can climb
mountains
until the end of time but that external
fulfillment
is gonna come with diminishing returns
and you can keep on chasing new things
you can like okay i'm gonna start a
company
i'm gonna become a streamer i'm gonna
have kids you can you can find
all these mountains to climb but that if
we kind of think about it fundamentally
like
if you're unsatisfied at the top of a
mountain like
that's a temporary satisfaction and
climbing mountains
is will always lead to temporary
satisfactions and so what would the
discovered
is like through a lot of internal work
which is exactly correct i mean i think
you hit a lot of the key points
which is that you can climb mountains
until you're out of breath but never
will that bring you peace
that peace is piercing the veil is not
about looking at a telescope
it's about looking at a mirror yeah
and so i think the journey that you have
to walk is is
this one and we can kind of talk so i
think that's like the fundamental of
where you are and then i think there's
also kind of a psychological component
fear of death thing like that that needs
to be processed
but there are a couple of um different
uh
key points that i want to share the
first is that buddha wasn't a workman
he was focused and so what happened is
materialistically he climbed to the top
of the highest mountain
so people told him like hey like as a
you know as a prince like
these are the things that you should
accomplish and he went and he did those
and then like you know he got married he
had a healthy son he was revered
he was wealthy he was powerful he was
respected
he was loved he had a bright future and
one day he woke up
and even though he was the envy of the
world he was unhappy
and so then he was like actually screwed
because there's a there's a subtle thing
uh zach which makes things both
beautiful
you're you're blessed and cursed because
when someone who is not
successful wakes up and feels unhappy
what do they think will lead them to
happiness well they think the success
will
uh yeah absolutely yeah they know what
the problem is and
they have a thing that they can displace
their
uh unhappiness onto but whenever you
have what you want
and then you still don't feel the way
you want it's harder to
deal with that absolutely so at some
point
you reach the end of the road right the
worse my life
is the further i can go like repairing
things repairing things repairing things
you know like playing games fixing your
teeth launching an
organization you kind of tried your hand
at a couple things you're taking care of
business
you're continuing to be successful and
yet
once we get to kind of the top then we
begin to realize we're like faced with
this
problem which is like where does
happiness come from
and this is the really really crazy
thing if you look at the the hindu and
buddhist traditions
i don't know if you're familiar with
this i'm going to go into a little bit
of history lesson is that okay
oh yeah i mean actually there's a story
that i
i remember i i heard and it was a a guy
that kind of ascended
to some degree of uh you know pseudo
heaven
and he was assigned an architect and
this is i think part of hindu mythology
and the architect uh you know he kept
wanting to bake bigger and builder
like bigger and bigger castles and
finally like the architect was so tired
of it
that he went and he asked i think it was
brahma or vishnu i forgot which one
and he's like how can i get this guy to
stop
wanting bigger and bigger castles and
then the the god told him
he's like i'll this is no problem i'll
solve it
and then the guy had the castle built
and then
a bunch of ants marched in to the castle
and each one of the different ants was
a former version of himself and it put
in perspective
how actually meaningless and and how how
little
it really mattered and i forgot i forgot
what his name was
yeah yeah that's not a particular story
i'm i'm
that familiar with so i i don't remember
his name but
um i think there's kind of an
interesting principle which is like if
you look at all the people
so you're i don't know if you're
familiar with this because it sounds
like you've studied
you know hindu mythology or something or
you're just well read maybe
or a bit i it's just well it's a story
that i think it
it made an impact on me and because it
just
it kind of puts into perspective that
like it's the whole idea of you know
ozymandias or anything like that where
any accomplishment that you have is
always fleeting absolutely
so so here's an interesting um
thing so you know like in india there
were four
castes there was a caste system yes and
the highest caste were the brahmins the
priests
these were the teachers of meditation
the closest to god et cetera et cetera
you know they were like they were like
they were the you know they taught
meditation
below them were the chatrias or the
nobility
these were kings lords etc below them
were the vaisnavas
uh who were avaishas sorry who were
the merchant class and below them were
the shudras or the laborer cast
and so let me ask you a question which
cast
do you think produces the most
enlightened people
um
[Music]
probably it's kind of hard to say i mean
it depends on like what you mean by
enlightenment i mean
obviously you would have the brahmins
and they're the ones that spend all of
their time
uh working towards enlightenment so
that's what would would make
a lot of sense but is that really what's
what's true
because usually i mean isn't that just
kind of hereditary what cast you end up
in sure
but they're also trained formally in the
in the skills of meditation right
they're the ones that are the teachers
and the experts
i don't know so it turns out that it's
the chatrias
okay so consistently like if you think
about the incarnations of vishnu which
if you want to think about it like not
from a religious standpoint
but a historical or anthropological
standpoint
yeah i think what you can safely assume
is that sometimes there have been
historical human beings
that have been like different to the
point where like they leave a legacy
that people assign divinity to
like rasputin like i mean that's a
that's a borderline one isn't it yeah
yeah yeah so so i i think it's it's a
good it's a funny example but possibly
yeah so what i'm thinking about is like
if you look at all the enlightened
beings from the indian subcontinent
they're all kind
of yeah things like that and and the
question is like why is that if you have
the experts in meditation you have the
teachers in meditation
and they what the the brahman does is
goes to the king's palace every day
teaches the king how to meditate and
then goes home
why is it that the king gets enlightened
before the brahman does
inconsistently so and the really
interesting answer is because like
you know i think it comes back to
climbing to the top of the hill
because at the end of the day what the
brahmin is taught is that like
don't climb to the top of the mountain
because that's not your job
the top of the mountain will never give
you fulfillment so the brahmin never
climbs to the top
but at the end of the day they travel to
the king's palace every single day
and they see a bigger house and
you know the king has a prettier wife
and
you know like the you know there's all
these like like the king eats finer food
and has finer clothing
and the king is the one who actually
winds up at the top of the mountain the
king is the one who wakes up one day
and finds like this desperation of
unhappiness
because remember like we talked about
when your life is not perfect you chase
an external goal
so for the brahmins there's the seed of
desire that is never fulfilled
and as long as that seed of desire is
never fulfilled they can never
truly seek enlightenment because the
search the road for enlightenment people
people make it sound like it's like a
positive thing
that's like if you look at instagram
accounts about like people who are
deeply spiritual it's all like
you know like being in touch with the
universe and like oh my god i'm so like
in love
like learn to love man i love myself in
a new way
those guys don't get it the road to
enlightenment starts
with what you feel every single day
is that like a no matter what you do
like things are decaying
and no matter like what you accomplish
like it that excitement can never be
reproduced
yeah that that's kind of what's so
it's very bittersweet in a way because
like you can appreciate it
and you can also resent it or dislike it
or be afraid of it
and you kind of have the the duality
that happens all the time
yeah so that's actually that
understanding is one of the key things
to transcend duality
you have to sit within duality
constantly to ultimately recognize that
things are neither bitter nor
sweet right so when you kind of talked
about you said something about like
nothingness
when you were talking about your
understanding of buddha's
enlightenment and i think one of the key
discoveries
is that like there is no such thing as
growth and there is no such thing as
decay
and once you recognize that once you
realize that you'll be free from your
sense of decay
i feel like uh like yeah it's like the
most enlightened version of it is what
it is
i i i get it i understand it but i i
how is that real if people die like a
tree a tree dies
it burns up trees gone how's that not
decay
yeah so so i could give you a logical
answer
that yeah it isn't decay um i i i i
could i could do that
but i think that will be a discussion of
logic and that's not actually going to
like let you transcend the mountain
so i you know the the answer that i
would give you is is all kinds of things
one is like you know that matter energy
and consciousness they're just
transformed right so like
like it is is a st is a chunk of
limestone
better or worse than like a brick in a
house
i think it's like the uh the impact that
it has on you right so like
of course obviously it's all the same in
the grand scheme of things right in the
grand order of the
of the universe but you know to a person
and to like what your experiences are
there are of course things that
have more importance to you than other
things it's like a
you know family member is more important
than a rock even
now we get to the crux of it right so
well said
the impact on you
so this is what the yogis discovered is
that like you said it's
internal so like the battle that you
need to fight has
nothing to do with climbing mountains it
has everything to do with
understanding how to essentially
control or be free of
things impacting you to be able to join
a micro transaction cesspit
the same amount is your first like
enjoyment of wow
to understand that like living in life
is like it's all about
impact in the sunscript word for
de-impaction essentially training
yourself to be free from the impact of
things
is vairagya to be free of like
its detachment is the the best kind of
uh definition of it um and so like this
is a process that like you can undergo
to where you know like you can like
literally
learn how to transcend the mountain that
the
going up the mountain and going down the
mountain is not actually like any
different
i know yeah i don't know it it
feels a lot different i'll say that yep
it feels a whole lot different
so but but that's the key thing right is
like like
the difference arises of feeling
it arises to your attachment or your
valuing
of the climb over the descent
yeah but how how could you possibly
equate the two that's what i i don't
understand is like
it it's like i i try to rationalize it
in my own mind a lot where it's like you
just go on it's like first
like for streaming for example right you
go on you have a great stream
you go on you have another stream and
it's not good
like how can you make both of those feel
as good to you personally and
like i think the answer that i always
tell myself is that well you have to
enjoy them both and you have to just
kind of get the same thing out of them
but it feels like that doesn't really
happen for me okay so i'm gonna give you
one last logical answer and then we're
gonna get into it
okay yeah all right so here's the thing
so so
i think you learn this in medicine so
like sometimes you work with a patient
and they live and sometimes you work
with a patient
and they die right
so like clearly one is better than the
other
there's like no objective argument that
can be made
and yet do you imagine that it's
possible
for a doctor to go to work every day and
actually
like be just as
satisfied with their life whether the
patient lives or dies
uh i don't think so i think that there
are a lot of doctors that probably if
they have a patient die they'll feel
terrible about it i would expect so yeah
yeah so so here's where what my
experience has been
is that ultimately i can't control
whether a patient lives or dies and it's
been really bizarre i'm thinking of one
particular patient in residency that had
like
younger guy um you know maybe in his
like or
early to mid 50s um had liver cancer but
like one of the
sort of genetic or other variants like
it's not like he was drinking alcohol
and did something
that was responsible for the cancer uh
you know so so he was a he was a um a
chinese gentleman and and so i was kind
of assigned to him because i speak a
little bit of mandarin and like we
didn't have mandarin translators
and so like i was assigned to him
because like i could at least ask him
like if he had pain that day
and so you know working with his family
was really interesting he had like a 17
year old son
and um you know it was really like
eye-opening because like it's clear that
the dude is gonna die
and and yet like like it's so hard to
describe i think this is where you have
to really experience it but
sort of like coming to terms with the
fact that as a human being like i can't
i can't cure him of his cancer like i
can't do that as a doctor you can't
actually save someone's life
all you can do is like try
right yeah and there comes a point where
like you can
a patient can survive and you can have
done a shitty job as a doctor
and a patient can have died and you
could have done an amazing job
as a doctor and that ultimately like
what where my piece comes from is like
is devoting myself to like the action
that i take
as opposed to like what happens to the
patient because there's no question
that you know life is better than death
at least in a medical setting right
it's just it's sort of like you know
what i where i find my peace and i know
this may sound strange to you zach and
we'll we'll get you there
you know because i think i have the
benefit of some of these experiences
where you like grapple with like people
dying of cancer and you figure out
how can i go on how can i you know can i
be proud of what i did and there are
times where like when i think about
that that patient and my work with that
patient that is i think like the height
of what i've been capable of yeah being
attached to an outcome
and being detached being detached from
yeah yeah that that's
you know that's yeah being attached is
the problem and being detached is the
goal
yeah and and so like like can you see
how objectively like there's no question
that life is better than death but
even like to this day the family is
incredibly grateful
that i was this person's doctor i'm
incredibly grateful for having the
experience
even though the dude died and it was sad
that there's an axis of suffering and
contentment that is actually
independent of happiness and sadness
okay okay i can see that yeah right
and i think you may understand that part
pretty well because
i think that there are a lot of reasons
that you there's a lot of
joy enjoyment and potential happiness in
your day to day
there's accomplishment there's hopefully
laughter
you know there's working with your one
true king folks and there's something
that's like
missing on the inside despite everything
going so well
yeah exactly so that axis
is like the path that you have to walk
through spirituality
because you've figured out how to like
become successful
that's the first axis and what happens
the reason we get stuck is because we
think that the axis of success
and the axis of contentment are linked
because
early on in life as we climb that
mountain we think that these two things
are linked because they grow together
and then you you kind of like you're
going up together and then what happens
you get to the top of the mountain
and then some people realize that the
axes are truly perpendicular
and when you understand that a hundred
percent is when you attain enlightenment
yeah i've tried so hard and like i i've
just
i i in a way like it's something that
you can clearly know
but knowing it isn't the same as living
it i with you 100
yeah yeah it's like i you you want to do
that and you want to
transcend being outcome like like
outcome driven or outcome determined or
whatever right
but you just can't get out of it
like i it's like i'll play a game and
i'll be like oh even if i don't beat the
boss you're gonna don't assume
it's fine and then i play it and i don't
beat the boss i'm i'm maulding
yep so so now so enough of theory
yes i think there's something holding
you back
okay yeah and so this is where i think
that like there's that general principle
but i think there's one big thing
getting in the way which is your fear of
death
so this i think think is actually like
psychological in nature
it's of the mind okay and and so as long
as you
we have to get to and probably process
or dissolve this sense of decay
that like plagues you
right so that like what i'm sort of
getting the sense of is like you have
this
shadow that goes like that accompanies
you through all of your things
and the shadow is like this feeling that
like we're on the decline that there's a
sense of decay
that joy like the only firsts that i
have left
are bad ones yeah you know exactly
and and so that comes from somewhere
that has nothing to do with the axis of
contentment or suffering
what that has to do with is like a
psychological like because
and this is where we can lean on
neuroscience a little bit just think
about this for a second zach like you
literally have
neurons that have been wired
to produce those thoughts
yeah right so then the question becomes
how did those neurons get wired that way
and how can we change your neuronal
wiring
so this is now taking a step we'll leave
spirituality behind
forget about spirituality forget about
enlightenment forget about the top of
the mountain
and what we really have to do for you is
do some psychological work and rewire
some of your neurons because once that
happens
then you can walk that other axis of
contentment and suffering
so let me ask you this does that make
sense
yeah no it definitely makes sense it's
basically it's programmed in the wrong
way like
you're programmed to think one thing and
and it's a bad thing to think yeah i
totally understand
sort of so the tricky thing is that it's
programmed
it was programmed in the right way and
now
it's maladaptive yeah so it's not a
mistake it's actually
and so let me ask you this how long have
you been
afraid of death since i found out about
it
can you tell me about that how you found
out about death oh
i don't really remember honestly uh i
was
i think the earliest memory i have is i
was like i'm like four or five or six
right
i got uh you know i was raised roman
catholic and so
i had a lot of experience just kind of
talking about
the whole idea of afterlife and
everything like that and even whenever i
was like five years old
i i read some of the stories i heard
some of the stories in the bible i was
like man i never heard of anybody that
lived in a fish i don't even know if
this is true
and it made me wonder it's like what is
the
uh what's really going on and what's
really gonna happen because like yeah i
understand people die
and i was scared of it i remember uh you
know it's like you can run from it hide
from it
uh destiny comes all the same and um
it it's scary it is and i remember
thinking that when i was a little kid
and there have been times where i've
been able to
kind of forget about that and i think
that's really kind of always been my
goal is to just not think about it
and i think that sometimes whenever i i
don't this sounds like really stupid
because
i i think it in a way i feel stupid for
thinking
this way and um like i will i will do
badly in a game sometimes and it will
remind me that i'm getting older
and i'm gonna die because i'm not as
good as i feel like i used to be
and it's like this weird like kind of
domino effect where like playing a game
like that will make him feel this way
and it's just so like to me
i i i find it embarrassing it's it's
weird
because i i think it's a um
it's like a illogical conclusion in a
way
but in another way it's not yeah
so well said so so i think when you say
it's an illogical conclusion here's what
i'm
i'm gonna rephrase that a little bit or
transform it okay
what i'm what i'm gonna the way i'm
gonna interpret that is that
if you look at the variables that lead
you to playing a
crappy game of whatever there are tons
of them right
yeah if you're a moba player the number
one variable is that your team sucks
absolutely it's always their fault yep
and and so
like if we think about it there are a
thousand reasons why you know
you're you have poor performance in the
game yeah but what your mind
jumps to is ah see this is a sign of
the decay we knew it was there
we know it's coming as you said you
can't escape it it's destiny here it is
and so this is this is the very nature
of a cognitive bias is that like it's a
filter
through which an independent experience
become like transforms into something
else
yeah it's like uh if the only tool you
have is a hammer every problem looks
like a nail
absolutely you find it yeah i get it so
so so now we go back to i mean you say
you don't have
many memories about it but like like i
think that we have to figure out how to
deconstruct the filter
and that that starts with like
understanding how the filter was built
and so when you were four years old and
you were like raised roman catholic and
when you say
can you tell us more about that well i
went to church every sunday got
communion
i never liked going to church couldn't
play game boy in church
and i didn't really ever believe in a
lot of this stuff
i thought it was kind of i i
in a way there's like the parallel
realities of
is it more like i think i even said this
last time i was on here is it more
terrifying
to know that you are created just for
this endless cycle
of servitude towards some deity that you
don't really fully comprehend
or is it more terrifying that you're
just a
hyper-intelligent ape with no purpose in
life who's going to die and
cease to exist in a period of time
that's
nothing in the grand scheme of things
it's like which one of these realities
is more terrifying and
you know i think they're both pretty bad
yeah so that sounds like philosophy to
me
yeah yeah i mean a lot of the religion
in a lot of ways
is philosophy and so what yep so
i'm gonna steer away from that go ahead
so why did you have to go to church well
my mom wanted me to it was sunday
and can you help me understand what
did you did you ever try to tell your
mom that you didn't want to go to church
yes i i made her aware of the way that i
felt about it yes many times
can you tell us about that i was like
mom i don't want to go she's like it's
too bad you're going to go
and i was like well i don't want to go
and then finally sometimes i would uh
try to make myself feel better and think
like maybe she'll take me to burger king
after church
that was that honestly sometimes that
helped but
um overall like yeah like she would
always make me want to go or make me go
and i didn't really like nowadays the
weird thing about it is nowadays i
i you know i offer every time that it's
like a holiday like right now you know
kovitz so like i'm not doing it
but like any other time besides and i
always tell her like listen mom if you
want if you want me to take you to
church i will
not even stream like i will make sure
that you get to go to church right
because
i knew how much it meant to her back
then but whenever i was a kid i didn't
have that same
perspective right and so back then i
just uh
you know i didn't want to go i hated
going and it was just
it's like i could be at home playing
with my friends i could be playing video
games i could be doing something i want
to do
and instead i'm doing this thing that i
don't want to do that i don't even think
is real
okay and what would she say when you
told her that you didn't want to go
uh i mean i think there's a lot of
different things she'd say but um
like i i don't the thing is it's it's
odd because i don't even really remember
like the only thing i really remember is
that it didn't matter
yep yeah i could rationalize it all i
wanted but uh
i was still still driving to church yep
so inevitable
it's inevitable nothing you can do to
escape it
well i could like fake sick sometimes to
fix it there's a few times i did that
but uh other than that yeah it's pretty
much inevitable
now we talking about going to church or
dying definitely church i feel like the
i i definitely feel like it's two kind
of different things
because church like i was like i knew
that at some point i wouldn't have to
always do this
and like i could get away from it to an
extent because it's like okay well i'm
clearly not going to be nine years old
forever
so eventually i won't have to deal with
this but
um with dying you can't really get away
from it in the same way
so it's not yet ask you a question okay
so yeah
i understand that you don't remember
exactly what the conversations were
but you remember the feeling
right of being dragged to church
yeah so like like there's a certain
sense of like
powerlessness and inevitability to the
story that you're telling
no i mean i think every kid has like
many stories like that where you just
have to do something it's like going to
school
it's the center we're not okay if it's
the same thing for you but let's not
worry about what
what many kids have okay so here's my
question i know it's gonna sound kind of
weird
yeah when you have those thoughts of
decay
is the quality flavor or color of
emotion
that you experience at all similar to
how you felt when you got dragged to
church
not really i mean i think the church
thing was just a more
or less a you know a one and a half hour
inconvenience
whereas dying is like a very much it's a
much longer inconvenience
and so can you tell me a little bit
about when you started to fear
death yeah like i was a kid i mean as i
said as soon as i figured out
that it was going to happen like how did
you figure out that it was going to
happen
well that's the thing is like i must
have been like four or five years old so
i can't really remember
i it's hard for me to like to really get
it
to really remember what it was or how it
felt
because it was just so long ago and so
i'm hearing you've carried this feeling
with you for a long time
yeah can you do you remember like
times that maybe you were a little bit
older that you were like
worried about it like do you have any
memories of being slightly older where
yeah i remember um uh well it's like not
just for me right i worry obviously
about my parents dying that's scary
and uh there's one time my mom she uh
i don't know we don't know really what
it was i took her to the doctor
a while afterwards but she like kind of
had some sort of like
a it wasn't really like a heart attack
but it was some sort of like a thing it
was like a couple of steps below that
and i remember like i woke up and i
thought that and i was like oh my god
that was a pretty bad point in my life
because she didn't want me to call that
the ambulance right because we were
really poor we couldn't afford it
and like having to deal with that and
like the helplessness not only
of you know of the the greater
existential situation but also just like
the day-to-day
like you know we don't have money we
can't take care of ourselves
and that was brutal
what was brutal about it well i mean
like having to
like feeling like you're gonna lose one
of your parents and then
thinking to yourself like this is all
i've ever known
and i like to know that it's not gonna
last
and like that that's what was scary and
to to be helpless even inside of the
context of society
right because you don't have the money
to take care of it and
uh the funny thing about that is that i
actually
um like yeah i had i remember because i
woke up and she was like
like it's just like screaming or like
crying and so like i had to wake up
like i used to have like ptsd and i
guess it's ptsd i don't know i just kind
of read about it later on
i would wake up and i would hear it in
my head and i would have to get up and
check on her
and this would happen like once every
like two hours or something like that
and uh this went on for maybe uh like
six months a year something like that
and and then you know i kind of got i i
that stopped happening
i wouldn't say i got over it but it
stopped happening and um
then a funny thing about that is that's
actually what
drove me to uh to make my youtube
channel and to start making videos
that's kind of the reason can you help
me understand that how does that relate
to a youtube channel
well because i didn't have the uh i
couldn't really
have a job at that point because i felt
like i had to be around to take care of
her
and i wanted to be able to work from
home and do something like that and so i
didn't want to spend all day at work in
case she had something happen that she
needed me there for
and that's why i started doing youtube
videos because i thought that well maybe
i can do this and
you know see where it goes
that's interesting yeah
so are you saying that if your mom had
never had something like a heart attack
you wouldn't
you wouldn't have had a career in
streaming
uh you know i uh i've always felt that
yeah i mean that's why i say i never
have any regrets in my life in a way
and um it's like uh you know
uh you need a hot fire to forge a sword
and
that's kind of the way that i i've
looked at it yeah it's true
but it sucks
so zach this may sound kind of weird but
like
i'm kind of hearing that you're not
really afraid of
i know it sounds weird yeah yeah go on
you're not really afraid of death
i think what what bothers you it sounds
to me is actually your
inability to deal with death
well control over it yeah yeah i mean
it'd be nice if i could control it
that'd be great
i i know it sounds weird and and yeah
this may seem like a
a useless distinction but to me it
actually feels pretty significant
because
what i'm what i'm hearing themes of
is is not actually death it's like it's
like you being
like and and i'm i'm stretching here
okay so i'm trying to draw connections
but
um and so you know we feel free to bat
them down if they don't
sit with you it's hypothesis testing
um you know what i'm really hearing is
that like
you've been on the receiving end of
being powerless before
and like what i'm hearing is that death
is like
the guaranteed powerlessness it's the
one thing
that you know that no matter how hard
you try
you can fix everything else you can have
money
you can have medical care you can have
friends you can have
love and you can gain power over every
dimension
in your life but the one thing that you
can never gain power over is death
yeah the interesting thing though is
that
i'm not because it's it's bizarre
because most people who
fear death are concerned about regret
they're concerned about lost
opportunities
they're concerned about all the things
that they didn't get to do
i'm not hearing really much of that at
all from you if i could sit in my room
and play video games eating cheetos and
drinking soda for another thousand years
i would do it
so so it's interesting because i know it
sounds weird
but for a lot of people the fear of
death is about missed things
i'm not hearing that from you what i'm
really hearing from you is that death is
about
the inevitability of powerlessness
yeah like that is like entropy is like a
force that no matter
how hard you fight against you can never
overcome
yeah you can't do anything about it yeah
it's it's the ozymandias analogy again
yeah
exactly and so this is where like i
think if you want to be free of that
the work that we need to do is about
experiences of powerlessness in your
life
right because that's yeah i've thought
about doing that for myself
too it's like i remember um
uh there's like sometimes whenever i
will take
risks in a way and this sounds really
bad
i'll take risks in a way that could
really hurt me and i don't care about
them because it's like kind of an
exercise in letting go of
worrying about your your well-being no
it's not
it's an exercise in exerting power
how do you feel how do you feel like
that because like
like you're taking the risk right so
like you're you're manning up against it
like like what so this is exactly what
i'm saying
for most people risk to their well-being
is is enough of a deterrent
but for you you have like a you have a
far
more important flame within you
which is like irrespective of the the
like
the impact to my well-being like i'm
going to choose i'm going to be in
control
i'm going to jump into the lake of fire
because i'm the one that's doing it
and while a thousand people will say to
you you're a dumb ass for jumping into a
lake of fire
they don't understand that like what you
need from that what you're getting out
of that is that you're the one who's
doing the jumping
for me like what i try to get out of it
is that
i can let go and just let it happen
if it is wrong we're saying the same
thing
yeah right because what you're trying to
do is train yourself to be powerless
powerless exactly yeah which in a weird
way
is actually taking control
uh i i i guess yeah i mean if you well
how could
well yeah but it's like it's how do you
how can you it's like a paradox right
because how do you take control of not
having control
how do you not take control that's why
it doesn't work
okay because you've tried it right yeah
and you still fear death and you still
fear powerlessness
and you've like like do you see like i
think we're saying the same thing like i
think
now i feel like we're on to something
because it's like
you do this thing to train yourself
to endure yourself to build build some
damage like you want some
fear of death resistance so what you're
gonna do is jump into a lake of fire and
a thousand other people are gonna say
like don't do that that's dumb
and you're like you guys don't
understand for me it's like
i have to learn how to like
let go or whatever like i have to learn
how to face these things and like
do something that's high risk because
it's like you trying to grapple with
this thing
yeah well it's also just like small
things i remember i uh
i i was walking up the street this was
like a years ago
right or quite a while and a few years
ago it was quite a while ago
and um i had like a weird i don't know
if this was like a panic attack or
something like that where
i was walking down to the street and i
or to the store i was walking down the
street to the store
and i had like a weird thing happen with
like my chest
and i don't know if it was a panic
attack if it was some sort of like
you know weird thing with my heart i
don't know what it was this happened
a few years ago and i it was the first
time that i ever really
felt i think that almost many people
have this experience right where they
they have the the first feeling of
mortality and that was that for me
right and i remember a year or so later
i had
not that same feeling but something that
reminded me of it like walking up the
street and i thought to myself
if that's the case and if i die right
now
there couldn't be a better time for it
to go i'm walking down the street
i'm happy i'm with my friends i'm in my
neighborhood
and everything is as good as it's ever
going to be
and that's been the closest that i've
been
to
i don't know like like think about that
for a second like
so so you're afraid of death right
yeah in that second time when you were
walking don't read twitch at
okay all right so when you're when
you're
walking up the street and you start to
feel that sensation
did you think you were dying uh
there's a two percent chance one percent
chance yeah
it made me aware it made me aware sure
and so as like so can we just sort of
i'm gonna put
some i'm gonna interpret okay so you're
welcome to push back against
interpretation
so in that moment you were actually like
some of the
that's the closest to death that you've
actually ever been
closest to death that i've been without
i mean like there have been some other
times where i've been pretty close to it
aware aware of your proximity to death
let's put it that way uh
i remember there was one time
i was driving that my friend was driving
down the street he was drunk and high
and i was in the passenger seat and the
seat belt didn't work
and i thought to myself man i'm never
going to have to worry about that test
that i have to do next week
how did you feel when you were close to
death
uh in the first case uh the the one in
the car
i felt uh it's like it there's like the
it's it's it's terrifying but at the
same time it's also grounding
and when you're walking up the street
and you think to yourself maybe there's
a two percent chance this is a heart
attack how do you feel
oh that died just i felt good feel fine
so
like this makes no sense
because here you are afraid of death on
a daily basis
and when it comes knocking on your door
the words that you describe
are not abject terror sure there's
terror but there's also grounding
and there's also a sense of like peace
and acceptance
yeah yeah uh it's it's a weird
it's like kind of you have moments of uh
moments of peace and moments of being
able to deal with things
and then also moments where you can't
no it's like it's not an even i'm gonna
disagree
okay because i think actually i know it
sounds weird
what you say is logically makes a ton of
sense but here's
here's what i'd like to put out to you
is that when
actually faced with death you're okay
with it
it's the feeling of decay the feeling of
inevitability the feeling of
powerlessness
about that future thing that you can
never prevent
that's where you're terrified
yeah do you see the difference like
because when you actually face death
you're like so be it and anticipation
is the uh is the stressful thing and you
know going back to the the thing with
the dentist right i mean
sitting in the waiting room is way more
stressful than actually having the teeth
uh
you know fixed or whatever so now we get
to like i think the problem is that
you've misdiagnosed yourself and not
that we diagnose you here on stream i'm
not gonna diagnose
just use that term loosely okay because
you you call it the fear of
death but i don't think it's the fear of
death i think it's the fear of
powerlessness
because when you actually face death
you're kind of like if i go
so be it that's vairagya
yeah i mean it's it's scary in a way
yeah i think the the the more i have to
think about it
it's like kind of it it's like i try not
to think about it
let me just say that yeah so we'll get
to your whole coping
structure in a second but like and i
think this is where
you know i i sort of barked up the tree
of like roman catholicism fear of death
and things like that
and that tree didn't there's nothing in
the tree right
i asked you that stuff and it kind of
felt like it wasn't
you're kind of like yeah that's not the
same feeling you basically told me
so and i think that makes sense because
i think what the feeling really is it
really has to do with like we've got to
talk about times in your life where you
felt powerless
like this whole thing with your mom i
think is like a far better
like i know it sounds kind of weird but
like you know when you think about your
decay when you do poorly in a video game
okay yeah this is gonna sound like a
bizarre question feel free to swat this
down too if it doesn't
feel right okay when you do poorly in a
video game
is the color flavor and texture of how
you feel in that moment forget about
your thoughts forget about your
rationalizations
similar to how you felt when your mom
told you
don't call the ambulance uh yeah i mean
to an extent yeah
uh sure and i i think that's basically
it it's like feeling
yeah feeling like you don't have the
control over it and
like you just can't you know what you
know what needs to happen and you can't
do it
yeah so that's so the the interesting
thing as
zach is that i think if you want to be
happy okay yeah there's a two-step
process and and we can dig into this a
little bit more if you want to today but
like here's what i'm seeing
the first thing that you've got to do
because you said this beautifully you
said
i didn't get over it but it stopped
happening
with your with your i think that's a lot
of ptsd and things like that
right i mean you have like the initial
shock it's the same as like a wound
right i mean you the wound eventually
heals
but you still remember it being there in
a way yeah so here's what i'm gonna say
is that it just changed the shape
in which it manifests and that it's the
same thing this is the hypothesis
the the fear of decay that you have is
what it turned into
when did your mom have this event 2012.
okay i think it's just somewhere around
them i'm meant 2013 i think it was
november 2012 if i remember right and
how long
did it did you have the the ptsd waking
up things like that
until about uh i don't know like 2014
2000 middle of 2014 somewhere around
there
okay i mean like obviously these are
very rough like
guesses but yeah and and how long have
you felt
not excited how long have you been
worried about the decay of your career
and that you're getting older
uh probably last two years uh two or
three years
that probably saved you three three
issues so it looks like there's like so
let's say like
there's a pretty significant gap between
2014 and 2018
and and i think that there's like to to
me though i feel like i've got a pretty
good
sense that if you want to be free of
this thing
you've actually go to gotta go back and
explore like times in your life where
you felt powerless
like the sense of inevitability and like
powerlessness
and we can kind of talk about that more
i mean i know we've been at it for
you know a while now um
and so i'll kind of leave it up to you
whether you want to talk a little bit
about like coping
like your your uh you know your tendency
to like cope and
well what do you mean by exploring it
like that's i'm curious
like how do you explore a moment of
powerlessness
when it yeah great question so like i i
think i know it sounds weird but
when when i asked you about your mom
what did you feel in that moment as you
were
retelling the story what sucked
i mean like the thing is if i i've told
the story before on my stream
so like kind of the visceral like
emotional feeling is not really there as
much because i'm used to telling it
but um it's it it sucks i mean i think
yeah
it just it feels bad i think that's what
i what in
what way does it feel bad
i don't know i mean like it it feels bad
that it happened it feels bad that
i i i guess yeah it just feels bad that
it happened i i'm not really sure
exactly how to describe it
so let me ask you this do you experience
an echo
of what you experienced back then when
you tell the story
no that's why i can tell it okay
so that's what we have to change so
here's how it works
okay so from like and this is a slightly
more yogic perspective but if we look at
principles of psychotherapy i think
we're kind of let's all
so i'll kind of explain to you what
happens so when we have negative
experiences
there's a certain emotional energy that
we experience in that moment
and yeah that that energy can do one of
two things it can either be digested
or buried generally speaking as we get
older we get
better at digesting negative experiences
so if we think about like you know um
so for example you know being
emotionally abused by your boss at the
age of 27
for six months is far less
damaging than being emotionally abused
by a teacher for six months at the age
of five
yes right so like if we think about why
is that it's because our pr
our our brain's capacity to process and
digest at
older ages is improved
yeah you have more context around it
absolutely more con
yeah so it what you say is context is
your brain's ability to attach context
around it
yeah right so the five-year-old doesn't
understand how to do that
you're precisely right but i'm just sort
of reshaping it as like a faculty
of the mind so if we look at like
psychotherapy and like psychiatry like
why do we dig into the past it's because
like most of the dormant emotional
energy
forms in the past because we tend to do
pretty good like you can have a
traumatic breakup you can lose a parent
things like that
but like losing a parent at the age of
seven has
and i've seen this lifelong impacts
losing a parent at the age of 42 has
also affects you for the rest of your
life but it doesn't like
damage you for the rest of your life
yeah it doesn't change the course yeah i
see
so here's what happens i know it sounds
kind of weird but that energy lies
dormant and then resurfaces so the
example that i'm going to use is like
the the standard one i use on stream is
let's say i'm walking down the street
with my kid
and my kid sees a dog kid goes to pet
the dog
kid dog kind of nips at my kid the kid
gets terrified
starts crying yells terrified pick me up
daddy feels a ton of fear and emotion
ten minutes later i get her an ice cream
she's licking the ice cream we don't
have to go to the emergency room or
anything the
dog was actually just sniffing her
didn't even bite her but for her it was
traumatic
and ten minutes later she's like a kid
she's resilient so she's like licking
her ice cream telling me about
you know what she's what she's doing in
school everything's fine
until the next day when she sees another
dog
and she freaks out daddy picked me up oh
my god so like where did that
you know she's like across the street
it's like what's happening
so what's happened is her neurons have
wired
to recognize this dog as a dangerous
stimulus
yeah people like the human brain is good
at uh
recognizing patterns and making patterns
absolutely right so that
dormant emotional energy so that's the
neuroscientific perspective
let's think about it from like an
emotional energy perspective a ton of
emotion
disappears in 10 minutes it doesn't
actually disappear
right it goes dormant yeah yeah and then
reactivates
so what i'm hearing from you is that
like
this emotional energy reactivates
as signs of decay oh you see the decay
there you see the decay there
it's inevitable i'm powerless there's
nothing i can do
and so then the question becomes like
okay if that emotional energy is like
manifesting because this is where we
kind of get to coping you i mean you say
it beautifully
zack you're kind of like i didn't really
get over it but it sort of went away and
what it's doing is it's like seeping in
through the cracks now
it shapes the way that your mind looks
at things it shapes the way that you
look at life because
there's this like part of your brain
that is telling you zach that no matter
what you do
you are powerless and so what is your
brain then what happens is your brain
takes that feeling
and it actually tries to construct a
logic around it
so this sounds kind of weird but this is
how like kind of psychosis works we're
like paranoia
where the person has the paranoia it's
actually an
emotion that's at the root of it and
then their their
mind constructs an explanation
to corroborate the emotion why do people
feel like they're being followed by the
fbi
as opposed to someone else it's because
they have a
feeling of being followed feeling
feeling observed
and then the mind constructs and asks
itself in a logical way
what organizations have the resources to
constantly follow me which is why you
see these recurrent themes of like fbi
mob whatever
yeah i can see that so they're just
looking for a outlet
to rationalize their feelings absolutely
but at the root of it
is a feeling and in your case i think
what your mind has done is like
latched on to this fear of death because
i don't think it's actually a fear of
death i know it sounds weird
i know you're afraid of death but i
think what you're really afraid of is
powerlessness at the time of death
because if we really look at it
scientifically when you face death
you're not like freaking the [ __ ] out
you're actually like
if i have to go now so be it which is
not what you would expect
from someone who's facing death no it's
not
and so i know it sounds kind of weird
but so now when we get to when you say
like
exploring it what does that mean what
this means is that actually all of that
dormant emotion
as we talk about it and as we bring the
emotion up
you will feel it in the moment
and you will feel powerless in the
moment but the cool thing is that each
time you
feel powerless let's say like in a
therapy session
it actually reduces the dormant
emotional energy
and as the dormant emotional energy
starts to wane
your fear of decay will go with it
so i actually have an interesting way
that i actually i
i agree with you and i think that's kind
of one of the reasons why i talked about
it on my stream too
is because the exact same thing happened
with a lot of other problems that i had
whenever i was younger so
if you ever go back and watch one of my
highlight videos of 2016 or something
like that
i was very afraid to even show my arms
because i'm i'm extremely skinny
i'm very very very skinny and
i was even more so then and on top of
that i
i would always cover my mouth whenever i
would smile because i didn't want people
to see that i had
things wrong with my teeth i would
wear a beanie sometimes if i felt a
little bit more bald than usual that day
and uh i had a lot of insecurities and
um
having to eventually deal with those
insecurities on camera
and i remember recently i took a shower
on stream where i took my shirt off on
stream
and imagine doing that uh four years ago
for me is just completely
like i just could never imagine doing
that at all
and i think that the reason that i was
able to do that is kind of just
consistently dealing with those problems
and being faced with that
constantly and then slowly just kind of
learning to accept that this is who i am
rather than this is uh you know
something i have to be
afraid of or ashamed of that i i can't
let anybody know about me
and i think that was that was helpful
for me because it helped me
become more of more accepting of myself
yeah so so perfect example
i'm going to reinterpret it using a
different kind of language
so i think the problem when we hear your
story is people
if people are struggling with the same
thing they're like i'm insecure about my
appearance
there and you say i learned to accept it
everyone listening at home is like
how do i learn to accept it right
because acceptance comes
at the end whereas like i'm gonna try to
reinterpret this using
the model that i shared with you is i
don't think i think the learning to
accept it
is sort of like happens towards the end
the interesting thing is that if you
think about
each of those moments okay so you have
the the dormant energy of insecurity
and every time you put on the beanie
that energy is not being digested
but every time you take off the beanie i
know this sounds kind of weird but
that insecure emotion comes up and is
present
alive and on in your mind yeah and if
it's not i'll read read it and somebody
will make a comment about it again
and so then it brings it up and it
brings it up
and it brings it up so all of the
dormant energy of the insecurity
activates in the present and if we think
about even something like exposure
therapy from a phobia or we think about
my kid
how do i get her to trust dogs again how
do i get her to like dogs
i have to bring up that emotion right
it's like oh we're gonna see oh that
dog's across the street
we're not gonna touch it okay daddy's
gonna go over and touch it
and that raises her anxiety a little bit
yeah and it's like
you know do you want to touch it now and
she's like no and then it's like okay
and then we're gonna try again tomorrow
we're gonna try again tomorrow
so it's the activation of that dormant
energy in the present
that when done with awareness and this
is a key part
which i think you are like grappling
with yourself in those moments right
and so that's like the awareness
component
i'm sure i mean in a way at the
beginning and i think also like to a
certain extent it's like i tried to
be somebody that i wasn't i tried to
pretend
like i was this different person and i
think that
in a way it's kind of like a negative
emotion
telling people that you're actually a
degenerate with their teeth falling out
like that's that's a negative emotion
but
it's still you it's still better to be
you
than pretend to be somebody else but it
is it's definitely not like i i don't
have like a better self-image
because of it i if anything i have a
worse self-image
but it it is what it is
it's not a it's a facade that is
precisely so now now we're going to kind
of things full circle
because that statement that you just
made is moving
in on that other axis that i'm talking
about
because oddly enough like if we think
about okay my self-image is poor
let me fix my teeth that's the axis of
like
climbing mountains doing something
external becoming something that you're
not
and what you're what i'm hearing you say
is that like i actually
accept that i kind of look like a
degenerate
and that actually brings me peace
well that's what's bad about it though
is because i'm
okay with with just living like an
animal
like i'm i've said before no mere mortal
can live with asthma gold
like i i live like an absolute animal
and i don't care yeah so
now we get to subtle things yeah there's
another one
so this idea that you were an animal
that's a whole other complex
that also has its origins which like
when you were growing up poor
just hypothesizing for a second right we
could do this all day
but when you were growing up poor like
tell me about what it was like to
go to school oh it would suck right i
mean like uh sometimes it would
especially if everybody else had x or y
thing and i didn't have it
uh luckily and you know my mom did you
know it's not like we were
we weren't like the we we didn't live in
the projects right but we were one of
the poorer families
in a working-class neighborhood i would
say somewhere around there like lower
working class neighborhood
and so um you know there would be many
times whenever i wouldn't have something
that it felt like everybody else would
have or
i wouldn't be able to do something that
everybody else could do or i couldn't
look forward to something that everybody
else could look forward to
and it did feel bad to be like that one
person that didn't have it
or that one person that couldn't do it
or whatever and
i still think about that sometimes it
does it's disappointing but
i guess like to me now i just i always
have like the uh
the perspective that as i said i don't
really have any regrets
and i like in a way i would there be
like small things i would go back and i
would want to change in my life
but i wouldn't really want to do a whole
lot of that because every
moment in my life has brought me to the
point to where i'm at now and i think
that i'm at a
relatively good spot now it's just that
internally i'm not
does that make sense yeah it makes a lot
of sense yeah so this is where you know
i could hypothesize further
i'm getting what you're saying but but i
i think this sentiment
of no mere mortal can live with asthma
and gold is i think a sentiment
that was born but i'm just taught you
know just in the interest of time i'm
going to just toss stuff out
it's like that sentiment was born when
you thought about inviting kids over to
your house after you went with their
house
actually was born after i had a
girlfriend live with me
okay but uh yeah
um well the thing is like a lot of my
friends like and the thing
is that back then uh we were
complete animals like we all were but
the the thing is that they got older and
they stopped being animals
but i'm just the [ __ ] same
and like i still feel like i'm 16. the
only time i don't feel like i'm 16 or 13
anymore is if i talk to a 16 year old
then i realize oh [ __ ] okay
actually never mind i'm 30. but outside
of that i feel the same pretty much
and i feel good it's just that every
the whole world around me changed i
didn't
i think there's a lot there yeah like
it's a really interesting combination of
acceptance and coping
yeah it's weird isn't it yeah i think
it's tough because i think what you've
managed to do
is like survive and so a lot of what i'm
hearing is like
you've accepted yourself for who you are
because
rejecting yourself is too painful but in
in accepting yourself for who you are
you're also propagating things that i
think you
know aren't good for you which you're
also working on
no yeah that that's what the problem is
right is like i should not be okay
with a number of things like i know that
like
internally you know my my head's [ __ ]
up in that way
yeah so to explain how you overcome that
you actually it's kind of weird you have
to go back to bringing up that negative
emotion
because as long as you say to yourself
no mere mortal can live with asthma and
gold
you're kind of laughing off the
shamefulness of your situation
but i don't feel any shame exactly
that's the problem
and until you feel that shame
right so so so like since you don't feel
that shame
you're propagating the life because this
is the way that you ignore the shame
yeah but it's like i just never had it
it never bothered me at all
and yeah i i it's just it's so weird to
me because like other people they will
latch on and care so much about having
this thing or having
uh you know x or y uh like object or
something like that
and for me i just don't care about any
of it it doesn't matter to me like it
doesn't matter if i have a nice car it
doesn't matter to me if i have a nice
house
i don't need nice clothes i wear the
same clothes i wore in high school
um and that none of these things matter
to me at all
yeah i just i don't care about the same
things other people care about i'm not
sure
how much of this is it acceptance and
attachment and how much of it is a
coping mechanism
blown out of proportion
if i want it i just don't care i i
understand that
so so so you know there are many reasons
that people cannot care about something
yeah right they can learn to not care
about it
or they can be detached from it
well so here it's kind of well i think
that there's a there's another
experience that kind of might shed some
insight onto this
uh whenever i was young i uh i did care
about these things a lot
these they were very very meaningful to
me like what i was saying before about
having everything like
you know i wanted to have like nice
clothes and they ran clothes things like
that
and you know many times my mom and i
would go to a thrift store and you know
i wouldn't be able to have like those
same kinds of brand new clothes that
uh my other my other friends would have
now many times i did also have
nice clothes as well but it just wasn't
really to the same degree especially
with other things that cost more money
and i went to a school in high school
initially where
it was much more of like an upscale
school many more people had you know
that kind of stuff and
i i kind of i didn't really fit in there
and i realized that the people that were
in that
in that society that cared about those
things were not like me
and uh that kind of got me to
not care about those things as much as i
did then
because i saw people that you know kind
of attached themselves to those things
and cared about those things a lot
and i looked at myself and i'm like this
is not who i am
that sounds to me like acceptance and
growth
uh i would say so i mean i would hope so
at least yeah
so so i'm not i'm not detecting that
this is some weird coping mechanism in
terms of like being not materialistic
ironically if we look at your karmic
temperament
it's interesting because i think being
born so so what you just described
asthma gold so
is actually would be interpreted by some
of my teachers as a sign of
past spiritual work so that there's a
certain so it's interesting because like
in
in the hindu gaming system or buddhist
uh the lesser of the buddhists but more
more in the hindu um
that essentially like you don't carry
over your gear
you don't carry over your stats but you
carry over your xp
between incarnations and what you're
describing to me
is is a generally non-materialistic
sentiment
which would be interpreted by some of my
teachers as a sign of past spiritual
work
which oddly enough is oftentimes
coupled with a lot of material success
and is sort of the formula this is why
like buddha was sort of the same way too
and he was born as a prince so his karma
was like
spawn like picking a spawn point where
you can continue to grow spiritually
and you carry some of your xp with you
so this is something that i've just seen
time and again i don't know if this is
like a bias on my part where i'm looking
for it so therefore i find it
but i oftentimes find that people who
are not very materialistic
and are quite materialistically
successful and unhappy
despite their materialistic success wind
up
in conversations with me
yeah i mean i think so i mean i think
that's the reason why
yeah i i of course that makes sense
now just to kind of i'm going to try to
close the loop and maybe wrap things up
and give you a direction to go does that
sound okay to you or
would you like to kind of okay um so i
think going forward
zach if i had to make one recommendation
for you
it would be to really explore this theme
of powerlessness in your life
and so like have there been times or
moments where you
felt that inevitability of decay
and i i recognize that it manifests in
gaming in your life but i i really think
about these moments like
when you couldn't call an ambulance like
that's perfect that's exactly what we're
talking about right
there's a sense of like there is no
matter how hard you try
and what you do
they're like you know there's nothing no
amount of your effort will succeed
and as you track back and discover those
moments in your life i know you've tried
to jump in for twice now
um as you track back and try to find
those moments in your life and as you
actually
if you can evoke that feeling of
powerlessness in the present
my hypothesis is that your fear of decay
will go with it so
how do how do i evoke a moment of
powerlessness without having
control over the powerlessness making
the paradox
making me mean mean it's irrelevant
because like if you yeah that that's
what's confusing to me like
how do you memory yeah
so so so the way you evoke the feeling
is because the the dorm
the emotion is going to be dormant so
the problem is that like
like you bro have you ever worked with a
therapist by the way never
so i think if you wanted to see a
therapist i think this is what you could
work on with someone so like you're
gonna go in week after week after week
and you're gonna talk about these
experiences and if you find a decent
therapist
they're going to find ways
to ask you questions that are going to
evoke emotion
because i don't know if you can tell but
over the course of this entire
conversation
we keep on moving away from emotion by
talking intellectually and
philosophically
well how do you talk in terms of emotion
because like for me i i just the
emotions are there
yeah i mean it made me feel bad i don't
really know exactly how much more i can
describe
about it
i'm not yeah you think about whether so
i can't tell you the answer to that
question i have to show you
okay because telling you the answer to
the question is operating on an
intellectual level and moving in the
opposite direction that we need to
yeah it's like even yeah talking about
it
makes it irrelevant in a way yeah so i
think it's like
it's like slow conversations where
you know sometimes when i interview
people like emotions come out
i think you have a interesting natural
damage resistance from being on the road
to enlightenment
and then you have an additional coping
mechanism which sort of like suppresses
and buries some of those emotions
the third thing that could be going on
is that these circuits of your brain
are suppressed by playing video games
yeah i mean there's there's part of that
i mean i i think that it's also
like i i don't want to let go
of things that i i had i think that's
definitely what it is i'm very attached
to things that i had and
you know i remember i saw a friend of
mine i'd never
seen this guy i haven't seen this guy
since like high school and
it was the day before i came back to
streaming like last year i think
and i remember i talked to him and this
is going to sound
absolutely degenerate and that's because
it is but i always tell the story of a
friend of mine
who drew a female dragon masturbating
on a chalkboard on the first day of
school and he was the guy that did that
and i mentioned it to him and he
remembered it and that meant so much to
me because nobody else in the whole
world
thought that [ __ ] was thought that
[ __ ] was true nobody else thought that
was true and i remember seeing him
and like i drove home and i cried in the
car
because i got a chance to
to remember that it was real
you know this sounds weird zach but like
i don't know exactly where that story
comes from but what i'm hearing from you
is the way to do what i'm telling you to
do
and it wasn't just like that moment that
moment was just like one thing right but
it was like everything about that you
know the life that we lived
uh just everything it was great
i i give anything to go back there i
would
what are you feeling now
i was half my life ago i feel like it
wasn't
like it feels like it was the the i mean
obviously
this feels a while ago now unfortunately
but um
it felt uh it just sucks man
you can never go back
so i i could see emotion coming up yeah
and you got to watch out for for twitch
chat because they're going to bury it
right so oh yeah so so like like
something came up there
you shared a story yeah and then you
felt emotion
yeah i do buried it's gone now
you see that yeah i mean i've never
really been a particularly emotional
person
i feel like any time that i show my
emotions it's not good
they're mostly bad mostly bad emotions
yeah so i think we've gotta teach you
how to let that stuff out
and i i when i said i i wasn't
optimistic but i think you just did it
yeah right and it's weird but like as
you told that story like
we were just talking about something you
tell the story about
you know a friend of yours who drew
a picture of i i want to really
emphasize because it sounds [ __ ]
weird
that it was not really about the moment
itself it's what the moment represented
and all the justifications in the world
are going to move away from the emotion
yeah you don't have to justify anything
this is just like i don't know why but
you just did it
when you asked me how do i do it i don't
know you just did
and this is what i it's weird it's just
you have to go back to the memory
and like something about sharing that
with him in that moment
for things that you had started to doubt
and push away
and buried came up and it's painful but
it's cathartic
yeah yeah it is i never thought i'd see
him again
yeah i never thought it would happen
so there are all kinds of
interpretations we can make there like
so for example the power of that moment
is something that you thought
was inevitable became not inevitable
exactly you would never get closure and
so we can see how that's powerful for
you because like what's your problem
it's that the inevitable is inevitable
and here's a here's a chance here's a
moment
where that doesn't have to be the case
and it's it's like painful but it's also
hopeful
okay i can see that i i don't know i
mean that's an interpretation but that
also is like
me going intellectually i don't know if
that's actually [ __ ] true or not the
point though is i don't know what you
just did but you need to do more of it
yeah maybe i mean i don't know it just
sucks like it it's sad because like
i used to i used to be like really happy
about that kind of [ __ ]
and now i don't really have that same
experience anymore
and i don't know like and i feel like i
can never have that back because it was
uh
the context of my life you know it's
like
my parents were healthy i didn't have to
worry about a job
i didn't have to worry about a bunch of
other weird [ __ ] it was just me and
the boys hanging out all the time
drawing dragons on a chalkboard and you
know riding the bus home together
singing along to rap songs and that was
good
it really was good
how are your parents zach
could be better could be worse
they're all right
it doesn't sound like they're all right
uh well
the thing is there's a degree of all
right it's kind of like uh
so you're getting away you're going down
the wrong side of the mountain
well let me let me explain what i'm
saying right it's like uh
i was saying before about how like
things get worse so slowly that you
don't realize that they're happening and
then you slowly just accept how bad that
they are
yeah there's a day that my mom started
using a cane to walk around
that was really painful for me to see
and it really hurt me a lot
but because it's happened for like now
for a while
i don't feel the same level of
in like visceral reaction whenever i see
her doing it now
because i like to see your mom walk with
a cane for the first time
i it is terrible it's horrible
what was terrible about it uh
it's like it's one step down
down that mountain you know
are a number of steps
and it wasn't like it wasn't like a
really emotional feeling i guess
it was just like kind of uh [ __ ]
i got it it was just i don't know i
can't really even describe it
so i i think zach this is going to take
some work
right so i think um but i i do
still feel optimistic that like
there are too many things here that seem
quite familiar to me
that i've seen end in a good place
well that's good that that's that's a
relief
right so so i think part of the issue
here is that as you
as you say i can't describe it so like
yeah
like yeah that's the problem is like
it's it's not about thinking about it
like i don't know
because it because thinking about it
isn't the right thing i'm gonna go back
to the you know the
the dragon on the chalkboard as an
example yeah there are certain ways
they're like shortcuts level skips
and like something about that story was
like
the secret tunnel at the end of the
mario brothers level that warps you to
work
world four and it's not a logical chain
and you can logically chain it out as
much as you want to and that's not going
to be that effective the real thing is
digging around for those level skips and
when you had that level skip the emotion
came right up like it was like
i mean i think everyone saw it like
you're at the verge of tears
and yeah because i got you you can just
for a moment
go back you can just for a moment go
back and realize how good it used to be
so i'm also hearing themes of not just
power and
uh powerlessness and inevitability but
of loss
right yeah yeah i would say so and and
so that's also worth digging into i
think
you know zach of all the people that
we've talked to on stream i i would
strongly recommend that you
really think about finding someone to do
this kind of work
yeah maybe i mean i i try to uh
i try not to think about it as much as i
can
and maybe maybe i should try to think
about it more
yeah so maybe thinking about it isn't
the right move
working on it
but by all means think about it i think
it's it's your
you know i don't know if you play d but
you've got an 18 on int
thanks but this is where this is where
like i don't know what your wisdom is
right like there's some other dimension
of your being which i think you
over rationalize intellectualize and
philosophize to get away from your
kind of like emotional stuff but i you
know if you want to think about it by
all means go for it
well yeah like it's like you spend time
with yourself
processing it it's like you'll lay in
bed like a lot of times i'll lay in bed
without even
no music not on my phone and i'll just
kind of experience
myself you know it's like a form of
i guess like uh uh uncultured medita
meditation
yeah uncultured yeah i think it's
it's um it's interesting to see
yeah um
how unrefined do you think you are
uh yeah i mean it's i mean there are a
lot of techniques and things like that
you can deal with
but it's hard to it's
sorry i was just thinking i was thinking
of something um
i uh there are a lot of techniques that
you can use
and it's hard to really know what works
and what doesn't
of course yep
and that's why i would encourage you to
seek guidance from someone who's maybe a
little bit more experienced
and who can show you what the right
technique is
yeah maybe i mean i've thought about
like i i try to
like a lot of times i would try to
like watch videos about video games and
stuff like that
and this is kind of not really the same
thing but it's kind of the same type of
idea
of like bettering yourself and nowadays
i will always try to watch videos and
do things and and uh read about things
that kind of matter
i guess to an extent like history and
you know
mathematics and stuff like that and i've
tried to
learn more and and be a better version
of myself
just so i can i can process things
better and and think and
have the ability to have that that
knowledge
uh like for me i i i'm lucky in a way
that i have a very good memory
but i waste that memory on remembering
video games
yeah i'm getting all kinds of weird
signals from you i know
um i i don't mean that to be judgmental
but it's just it feels like we're
opening up
new and new avenues of conversation
because now i have questions like are
you proud of yourself
or other people proud of you other
people are
are you proud of yourself i've done some
good things
it's all right could be better it always
can be better
so that's a no
um i i think that
it's like i'd say it's like it's let me
tell you what that is
that's a no cloaked and coping and
positivity
well it's like i mean no it it's a no
it's inter it's an intellectualized note
because like i've i've succeeded in a
number of things on a very
uh on a very real level right like i
i've
i've done this i've done that i've
succeeded at this i've succeeded at that
like all these things are things that
i'm proud of but at the same time i feel
like i could do more
or i i'm not living up to what potential
that i have in my own mind
the question isn't whether you've done
things that you
can be proud of the question is are you
proud of yourself
um
i don't know it's an interesting
question i i don't know
like i i would obviously like the first
thing that i would say is is no end yes
because i've been very happy you know in
a lot of ways like hanging out with my
friends like doing what i want to do et
cetera
but is that something to be proud of do
you do you have to be proud of yourself
to be fulfilled
yeah so because like a lot of the sense
of pride
it's like pride in general like oh in
this case
to some degree is like a construct that
exists
in context of society so like
do i am i proud of you know these
accomplishments that i've had in real
life
well yes to an extent but these
accomplishments that i have
in real life are these are constructs
that exist
in society these are not things that are
internal these are not
uh it doesn't really matter
yeah so when i ask you a question about
whether you have pride in yourself
yeah how do you answer
well that the answer is is very simple i
don't know
and like i'm proud of some things i'm
not of others i think that's probably
and it's a [ __ ] answer 100 it's a [ __ ]
answer but like there it is
yeah so i i think we're
i'm sort of feeling like i don't know
that we're gonna get to somewhere very
productive
from this conversation i think that
these are all important conversations
i'm sort of taxed at this point um i
feel like i'm oom
yeah i'm probably go way down afterwards
uh
and so what i would say to you zach is
that like when i ask you a question
about your feelings your answer appears
to be philosophical or intellectual in
nature you start talking about
constructs in society where is what i'm
at like
pride is an emotion
uh i mean aren't they the same thing
what
i think so like i mean in a way right
because you have like shame
and like so if you're ashamed of um not
having a nice car
or something like that that's completely
a society construct that's some that's
not something that really
means a whole lot in the grand scheme of
things doesn't really mean a lot as a
person doesn't make you
grow as a person this just exists as
a thing that you do to make society want
to to care about you
no okay so shame
is a subjective experience can shame be
caused by certain societal things
absolutely
but shame is within
right so like for example depending on
the societal construct
i can be ashamed of my skin color or my
grades
or the clothes that i wear completely
agree but the experience of shame for
those
five people depending on the societal
constructs is still subjective
it's an experience of emotion
is it triggered by societal constructs
do societal constructs
have something to do with it absolutely
but at the end of the day like anger or
emotion is not a societal construct
emotion can be triggered by a societal
construct sure
do are certain people's neurons wired to
elicit particular emotions
based on certain societal constructs
absolutely
yeah but fundamentally i think what i'm
hearing from you
is that when we go towards emotion
your mind interprets intellectualizes
rationalizes and if we think about the
story of the chalkboard
there's no interpretation there it's
just raw emotion
yeah i mean i i think there's a lot of
context behind it
of course i mean like yeah yeah i mean
there's a lot of like actual
things that happened yeah but like like
concepts in the mind are of
fundamentally different
stuff than emotions in the mind
it's like woodworking and like
you know alchemy like it's different
stuff
different mats yeah
and what i find is that you tend to
always go towards the
intellectualization the philosophization
which i think is absolutely one of your
strengths
one of your coping mechanisms and one of
the ways that your neurons is wired
and that i think that you're going to
gain a lot like i don't think you're
going to be able to logic your way
out of the fear of decay
which is really what i'd call it it's
not death it's like the powerlessness
and inevitability or maybe you can
actually you can
but i think that you're going to get far
better results
by learning like picking up a different
secondary skill on your wow character
because
you know you can try to you can chug
potions to increase all your stats but
at some point it's just more efficient
to craft yourself some armor and put
that [ __ ] on
and what i'm hearing is that you're a
grandmaster potion maker who's trying to
make potions instead of wearing armor
yeah i mean i i could see that sure i
i i i think for me like there have been
emotions like shame and things like that
that i've had to overcome
and like you know i said about going to
that school and then feeling ashamed of
myself and so
i've gotten through some of those things
for sure
but uh some other ones not as much yeah
so i think it's just a new skill that
you can learn
yeah and um you know i think if you have
questions or more you know if you want
more detailed information about that
like i i feel kind of spent at the
moment so
i don't know but but i'd say that you
know feel free to like sleep on it or i
need to sleep on it and if you're kind
of
curious about that or want to learn more
just you know
ping us i think generally speaking when
people come on stream i think we'll send
you like a packet of information about
potentially like put options for
follow-up and how to find a therapist
and things like that if you're curious
about that but
um overall i i think
you know i i really can
i feel like i understand a lot of what
you're going through and i don't
think it is quite as inevitable
and i think it's i i think it's solvable
i think you're walking a difficult road
but it's a road that many people have
walked before and you seem to have
a lot of the karmic signs that other
people who have walked to this road have
walked
okay our tendency for not being
materialistic
a lot of worldly success early in life
in a sense of dissatisfaction that's the
spiritual road and laying on top of that
that i think you're going to have to
process
is more of like a neuronal psychological
like fear of decay and inevitability and
and
being powerless in the face of certain
things which if we really think about it
sounds like the fear of death but the
more that we tunnel into it
we actually discover that when faced
with death you're a chad
you know and and and so like as
terrifying as that is like you actually
know how to accept you know how to
accept parts of yourself you know how to
face
death actually um with some degree of
terror
and grounding yeah there were a number
of times when i was younger i would do
things that would
get me pretty close to it or
pretty close to at least a lot of
material harm yeah
that yeah is another thing that i find
myself being curious about but don't
think i have the mana for the encounter
oh don't worry if you did i wouldn't
cast a spell
um zach are you
okay with our conversation today yeah
i'm great i really appreciate you
bringing me on and talking about it i i
hope that you know i talk about these
things and the reason why i come on is i
think that the idea of this is that
i i think it's important to have people
put themselves out there and and show
that this kind of stuff like mental
health and
just to a greater extent being able to
talk about your problems and
i think people will watch what i say and
then they will
relate to it and that will help them so
even if it might make me look weird or
look bad
the greater good for it is worth it does
that make sense
yeah of course yeah um do you think you
look bad
i think so i think any time that a
person reveals their emotions at all
uh there are a lot of people that um
that resent that
do you think you look bad no
okay i don't think you look bad at all
thank you i think you're quite handsome
well at least that's one of us right
[Laughter]
all right zach thank you very much um
you know i hope you
have fun playing burning crusade me too
i i hope you get more enjoyment out of
new world in three days
i'm certainly looking forward to it
really was anyway
yeah and then yeah go ahead
maybe once you find inner peace you can
start developing games for the rest of
us
yeah i've never been i like the idea of
making games sometimes but
i took a coding class and it didn't go
too well so
i think i'd have to be the idea idea guy
there the vision person
sure let's go we'll see all right thanks
a lot man
i appreciate it thanks for having me on
and uh i'll talk to you later see ya all
right
see ya peace um
let's okay chat
that was that was fun that was great you
know i think zack is fantastic man
such a good dude